# Introduction
Natural Language Processing (NLP) is a branch of Artificial Intelligence (AI) that deals with computer science and human language. It is a union of linguistics, computer science and artificial intelligence. In short, computer algorithms should be able to analyse and process natural language. Identifying hate speech on social media, detection of reviews, analysing opinion & arguments, speech recognition, natural language generation are some of the use cases of NLP. It is a known fact that the computer understands programs only supplied in a highly structured language. The main challenge here is that natural language is not precise, ambiguous, no fixed length, varied social context, regional influences. Thus, developing computational algorithms to unveil the emotions behind the large text is a challenging task. 

Over the last decades, several machine learning models were used to analyse the text and were able to achieve great results. But classical methods involved more time for text processing which included important feature selection, instead of understanding the data and the context of the words within the sentences. But in the last few years, deep learning has made a tremendous improvement in developing state of art algorithms such as Recurrent Neural Network(RNN), Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) and Transformer etc that are also supported by high powered computation capacities and make NLP more powerful and interesting. 
# Project Description
This project deals with the classification of music genres from a database [https://www.kaggle.com/mateibejan/multilingual-lyrics-for-genre-classification?select=train.csv] that contains lyrics to a song, as well as the artist, song title, language and genre associated with that song. The project is divided into 3 parts, lyrics prediction, transfer learning and finally building a model for the top three most frequent genres. The goal of this assignment is to build a deep learning model for the purpose of performing genre analysis on the dataset.  

We have used many deep learning algorithms such as Recurrent Neural Network (RNN), Long ShortTerm Memory (LSTM) and Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) and different variants of them and we have used embedding that helps us to reduce the dimensionality. And we have also used a pre-trained model (GloVe: Global Vectors for Word Representation) and compared the same with other models that we have built during the project. Next, we have used the concept of transfer learning, based on the model we have created, then we have used the same model to recognise the artists instead of genres. And finally, we have generated our own lyrics for a particular genre of music.
